(An Incomplete List, More to Be Added)

1. Hang Li, Statistical Machine Learning, Tsinghua University Press, 2012.

This book covers the typical shallow models (mainly supervised models; does not cover neural networks) 
and is written in a very clear fashion. In the first chapter, the author overviews the field of machine 
learning, while in the last chapter summarizes the covered machine learning algorithms. In between, the 
author presents one main algorithm in each chapter by first laying down the theory and then giving a 
concise example. I feel this is a carefully written book after reading through it several times.

2. Zhihua Zhou, Machine Learning, Tsinghua University Press, 2016.

This book contains 16 chapters with useful appendices. It covers both supervised and unsupervised algorithms,
and also touches reinforcement learning. In terms of coverage, this book is of wide spectrum. Due to the wide coverage,
some topics are not fully expanded. This book is very popular in China. After reading through, you will find that it is
really nice to be used as an introductory book in the field of machine learning. Personally, I like the stories at the 
end of each chapter. It is safe to say that the author made great effort in adding some of his thoughts in writing the book.

3. Aurélien Géron, Hands-On Machine Learning with Scikit-Learn and TensorFlow: Concepts, Tools, and Techniques to 
Build Intelligent Systems, O'Reilly Media; 1 edition (April 9, 2017).

This is a very well-written book. When I first read through this book, it was just released and was the 1st edition. 
It consists of two big parts: shallow models, neural networks. It is of wide spectrum in terms of coverage. It can help 
you get started in engineer side and also can help you gain a solid understanding of the theoretical side: the author 
includes all the main references explicitly. Geron is a machine learning expert with both genuine engineer experience
and very good machematical understanding, which is my feeling after reading through the book. Personally, I had read through 
this book a number of times, and each time I could gain something new. Now this book has its second edition incoporating Keras.

5. Francois Chollet, Deep Learning with Python Manning Publications, Dec 2017, 1st Edition

This is a/the very book for gaining both engineer understanding and practice in machine learning, especially in deep learning. 
The author is also the author of Keras, a very friendly-to-use API for implementing deep neural networks. 
The representation is concise yet sufficiently detailed, and full of ideas and sound personal understanding about deep learning models. 
I especially like the comments of the author about the role of gates in LSTM cell in reality. This is a book which deserves your 
reading through a number of times as I confirmed after doing so.

6. Andreas C. Müller and Sarah Guido, Introduction to Machine Learning with Python: A Guide for Data Scientists, O'Reilly, 2016.

A good book to start the practice of shallow machine learning models by using learning scikit-Learn API.



Probability and Statistics Foundations.

1. Patrick Billingsley, Probability and Measure, 3rd edition, Wiley, 1995.

This book is a masterpiece, classic. It contains a huge amount of information. When I was a graduate student, I studied this book for
two semesters with a very rigorous research professor and did a large portion of the excercises at the end of each section. 
These exercises also contain huge amount of materials.  I feel that the materials in some sections together are sufficient to be used 
as a real analysis textbook. I refer to this book frequently when using statistics and doing fundamental and applied research. 
From a mathematical point of view, some of the auxiliary results proved in some of the CVPR, ICML, NeurIPS papers are just 
special cases or rediscover of some of the results in this book. If you do a systematic study of this book, it is guaranteed that 
your analysis technical power will be greatly enhanced.

2. David Freedman, Statistics, W. W. Norton & Company, 4th Edition, 2007.

This book is now in its 4th edition. The exposition of the book is lucid. It focuses on the core ideas of concepts and methods 
with light mathematical formulas. My feeling is that I can gain a very good statistical feeling of the fundamental concepts and
methods.

3. Christopher Bishop, Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer, 1st edition, 2006.

This book is a well known text in the field, and the author is a well known expert in the field. It may be more proper to put it 
in the machine learning class for my list. However, I used it slightly differently from other books. This book takes a Bayesian 
point of view and contains abundant information. I like the second chapter very much and use it as a reference for 
probability distributions. Though I had read through the book and find the book has theoretical depth, wide coverage and 
is very good for reference, there are two small points which do not aligh to my taste very well: first, from time to time, 
I feel it is wordy. When I read chapter 1, I felt that I need take a long breath in order to finish some of the whole sentences; 
second, the author presented the material in a whole section without using thoerems, properties and remarks. Though explicit structure 
format is not necessary, putting all the formulas and conclusions together without a clear hierarchy in a section is not a best way 
for presenting heavy materials.

Other books:

1. Tieyan Liu, etal, Distributed Machine Learning: Theories, Algorithms, and Systems, China Machine Press, 2018.

This book presents distributed machine learning framework. It is useful to the practice of training very large model with
big data set. It also contains two chapters which put together a number of optimization algorithms. This book is written 
in a high and rough level, in particular, conveying the main results without proofs. It is ideal if you have solid background and 
use it for a high level review or summary of the topic. You may need to study the references in each chapter in order to make sure
the statements are precise if you use it as the main text, because knowing the statements of the main results and theorems is far from 
understanding them, not mentioning grasping the connections among them. In fact, some theorems are stated without fully specifying 
the notions encountered and some tables are quoted in an inconsistent way with the original literature.If you are well trained in a 
techinial field and also have solid background in machine learning (theory and training), there is some fun in reading this book. 
The authors of the book are experts and practitioners in the topic. 


PYTHON BOOKS:

1. Bradley N. Miller, David L. Ranum, Problem Solving with Algorithms and Data Structures Using Python, Franklin, Beedle & Associates; 
2nd edition (August 22, 2011), 438 pages.

This book explains the basic data structures clearly with concrete code examples. It contains very few or almost no typos. It can be used by
beginners as a textbook and by non-beginners as a reference. If it is the first time for you to interact with Python, this book is ideal
as the start point.

2. Rance D. Necaise, Data Structures and Algorithms Using Python, 1st edition, Wiley; 1 edition (December 21, 2010), 540 pages.

This book contains a number of typos in the code examples. However, this does not affect that it is a good book for learning python data
structures due to its clear exposition. In fact, one shall critically think, carefully distinguish, and actively practice the contents of
a book, in order to achieve genuine understanding. This book is not ideal for beginners, but is very good for non-beginners.

3. Clinton W. Brownley, Foundations for Analytics with Python: From Non-Programmer to Hacker, O'Reilly Media; 1 edition (September 4, 2016)

This book explains Python basics and emphasize how to read and write files (Excel, CSV, etc) using both brute force way and the 
Pandas library. The code in the book is very well-written with very few typos. From a higher standpoint, it is important to understand
the hows and whys in reading  and writing files. 
